the unison spa resort in hakone offers
his guests the pretty unique experience
of splashing around in a vat of pork
soup and ramen noodles
while this may sound crazy to many
people many
the japanese believe that soaking in
such a bath is good for the skin
because a broth made of pork is rich in
collagen
chili pepper wasabi sweet potato grilled
corn
soybean salt watermelon mango
green tea and that's only a short list
of the kitkat flavors you can try in
japan
which one would you try let me know down
in the comments
specialists make this kind of food from
plastic or wax
and it looks just as delicious as the
real one
many restaurants use fake food to
display their popular dishes in the
windows
and attract hungry clients usually these
replicas cost
much more than the dishes they imitate
back in the 40s scientists brought a
number of rabbits to okonoshima island
to do some tests
however later on the animals were freed
and started to multiply
now the island is full of them and
attracts a lot of tourists
taking photos in a booth is nothing new
but japan
added its own exciting twist to this
experience
their photo booths called perakura allow
you to edit photos right on the spot
adding different backgrounds funny
stickers or writings
also you can send the pictures to your
cell phone or perhaps your toilet
if you know you have wi-fi in there you
might never have to leave
subways and train stations get really
overcrowded during rush hour
that's why the station staff and
part-time workers have to perform the
routine procedure
of pushing people inside trains to fit
in as many passengers as possible
before the doors close before going
inside a building
you can park and lock your umbrella just
like you do with your bike now you can
be sure
no one will take it and you won't make a
puddle on the floor if your umbrella is
wet
many government buildings offices and
hotels have this sort of
umbrella rack
every single time i eat sushi rice falls
off the pieces of fish as soon as i pick
them up with my chopsticks
now in japan though people don't have
this problem
they mix the rice with a special sauce
that consists of
salt sugar and rice vinegar this sauce
keeps the rice together
and allows you to bring sushi up to your
mouth in one piece
sign me up a holiday meal means
tons of tasty food and of course a big
roast turkey
but if you ever celebrate the holidays
while in japan
don't be surprised to be treated with
kfc instead of more traditional food
the thing is that in this country eating
food from kfc for the holidays
is a widely practiced tradition
in the ginza district of tokyo there's
an unusual stationary store which rises
12 floors the store sells high quality
stationary
and each of its levels has a different
concept for example
on the second floor you'll find the
share space where there are things
necessary for sending your thoughts to
other people
like envelopes letter paper and
postcards you can write a letter
right then and there and send it
immediately from where you are
and on the fourth floor in the meeting
space you can create an original
notebook with the cover and paper of
your choice and your name
engraved on it it's a common thing in
japan to see people handing out free
tissues on the street what's the catch
it's simple
companies put their advertisements on or
inside tissue packages
and people who take them learn about
their services or products
it must be working since more than 4
billion free tissue packages get
distributed
in japan every year that's a lot of
runny noses
suffering from the cold in the winter
how about some tissues for that runny
nose
no way that was number fourteen just get
yourself
one of these one use pocket heaters that
are so popular in japan
it's called cairo and nowadays you just
need to open
it for the chemical reaction to begin
besides warming your hands
you can also stick these warmers inside
your clothes
what a gem of an idea for a freezing
winter
japan is a traditionalist society so men
are commonly bred winners
and seen as heirs to their families
that's why an unusual thing has happened
there are more adults adopted there than
children
most often the adopted are men aged 20
to 30 years
this is done to have an heir or for
instance to pass down a business
remember i told you about their
diligence well it concerns every sphere
of life
including public transport japanese
trains are almost
never late and if they are they must
issue official delay certificates for
passengers
this way they have proof they weren't
late because of their own tardiness
politeness is one of japan's trademarks
known all over the world
there are numerous formalities to be
observed in communication with different
people
and they're all rather strict they also
have about 20 ways to say
sorry now let that sink in
what is considered polite in japan may
sometimes surprise foreigners though
for example slurping your noodles with
gusto
is a way to show your appreciation to
the cook so
don't restrain yourself
avoid walking down the street with your
food however it's not exactly rude today
but it's still not very classy
don't be surprised when you see the
japanese standing right at the spot
where they bought some treat
and eating it they just don't want to
walk with it
it's also considered impolite to talk on
your phone in a confined public space
such as public transport great idea
shall i repeat that one there you're
expected to put your phone in your bag
or pocket
turn off the sound and only answer it if
it's urgent
and even then you should keep your voice
down you don't want dirty looks from the
locals do you
well you'll probably find it next to
impossible to talk on the phone on a
subway train in japan anyways
this is especially true for tokyo where
there are special people called
pushers on many stations they do exactly
what their name implies
pushing people into the train cars try
pulling out your phone when you're
pinned to the wall
back to work issues if you ever find
yourself in a japanese restaurant
don't even think about tipping your
waiter it's considered rude
and the reason is simple they do their
job and they do it well
because it's an honor if you give them a
tip
you offend them by assuming they do it
for extra cash
you sporting tattoos then japanese
public baths are off limits for you
sorry tattoos are considered ugly and
associated with yakuza or
organized japanese criminal gangs so no
one will allow you entry to a public
bath without them
at least covered recently though this
has changed in many baths
because japan is trying to be more open
to tourists
nothing says cheap and probably
unhealthy like food from a vending
machine
sure you might find some roasted peanuts
mixed in with the beef jerky and potato
chips
but vending machines don't exactly say
balanced diet
in flashing neon lights and yes i know
not all vending machines are created
equal
sure you'll find wraps sandwiches and
slices of cake in some of the higher end
models
but those aren't really what vending
machines are for unless you're in japan
where vending machines are the dominant
species
there are more than 5 million in a
country with a population of less than
127 million
that's about one for every 25 people on
the island
why is this does japan really like
doritos
well plenty of japanese vending machines
sell traditional snack foods
the sky's the limit as far as automated
sales are concerned
this includes neat but relatively
reasonable things
such as fresh fruit and hot coffee as
well as oddities such as
clothing shoes umbrellas surgical masks
and even cassette tapes yes cassette
tapes
put a pin in that because we're coming
back to it later while some of these
seem strange
they make sense in context how many
times have you left the house without an
umbrella
only to get soaked on the way back as
for the surgical masks
nothing spreads germs like being crammed
into an underground metal tube
and big cities like tokyo and osaka have
a lot of underground metal tubes
and let's not forget the gimmick vending
machines such as the pet store in tokyo
which featured a puppy vending machine
presumably the sneaker machine falls
into the same category
unless tokyo has a rampant shoe theft
problem
anyway remember when we put a pin in the
cassette tapes
japan is home to some of the largest
tech companies and car manufacturers in
the world
famous across the globe for their
efficient and forward-thinking designs
with that in mind it might come as a
shock that the land of
sony and toyota is using technology the
rest
of us left behind in the 90s so why are
fax machines and cassette tapes
all the rage in the land of the rising
sun
a lot of it has to do with a quirk of
the japanese economy
while most of the japanese companies
you've heard of are sprawling
multinationals with multi-billion dollar
incomes
huge corporations actually represent a
tiny fraction of the local market
with small and medium-sized businesses
dominating japan's economy
most workplaces don't have the resources
to update their technology regularly
this continued demand has kept cassettes
and fax machines
on the market long after the rest of the
world left them behind
as a result many consumers continue to
rely on them
as cheaper alternatives to modern
technology
a hundred years ago japan was a
traditional agricultural country
nothing like how we know it now no
robots
how did it manage to become the most
technology savvy country
with a developed economy and one of the
highest living standards
well one of the reasons is the high
financial competence of the japanese
themselves
they're experts in personal finance they
use cacabo
which means they don't buy that third
handbag in two months
and manage to save up to 35 percent of
their income
sound good then be ready to take notes
cacabo translates to household account
book
it's a notebook where you write down
your income and expenses
long before any financial apps or
digital tables appeared
the japanese had this system of writing
up a budget
and it keeps working today the idea of
this saving tool
is to track how much you earned and
spend in detail
its final goal is to increase your
savings
look simple it is no apps no technology
no tricky calculations that's the point
you rule out everything that's not
necessary and focus on your habits
and decisions this is how fumiko chiba
the author of the book
kakebo the japanese art of budgeting
saving money
explains the efficiency of the method
kakebo appeared in 1904
and grew popular thanks to the first
woman journalist in japan
hani motoko who sold it to a wide
audience
chiba says that even though japan is
still a traditional country in many ways
kakebo gave women freedom and control
over financial decisions
dozens of books magazines and articles
devoted to kokebo
are published in the country every year
the cable fans know that reasonable
budgeting helps you save money
instead of thinking about things that
you can't afford you switch your
attention to what's
important and what you can spend your
money on
cocaibo is based on four main questions
one how much money do you have two
how much would you like to save three
how much do you spend
four how can you make things better to
draw up a cacabo
style budget you'll need two notebooks a
big one
and a small one you can buy special
kokebo journals
but any kind will work you use the big
one to write down your income
and plan expenses and savings as for the
small one
you'll be carrying it around with you to
record all the expenses in real time
so you don't forget a single cent
toilets in japan like their gadgets are
technologically advanced and user
friendly
even the simpler ones still have
built-in sinks on the tank and heated
seats
some public restrooms use a system that
shows you which stalls are vacant or
occupied
and the most high-tech super toilets are
like a swiss army knife
with all kinds of buttons that raise or
lower the seat
play some white noise background music
and of course
send a spray of water to clean the user
up oh
and they've been using these things for
over 35 years
so yeah each year the japanese village
of inca date
transforms rice paddy fields into
large-scale works of art
known as tanbo art this tradition
started in 1993
with the purpose of reviving the
region's dwindling economy
it became and remains a huge success
with hundreds of thousands of spectators
visiting the place to personally witness
these incredible masterpieces
they have a different theme each year
like japanese folklore
anime and iconic figures from movies all
made in exquisite detail using 10
colorful strains of rice plant varieties
the japanese love everything that's cute
or kawaii as they call it
like cats and anime characters with
their large adorable eyes
as for their pooches the latest craze in
japan is to groom their dogs into
perfectly trimmed
cubes it isn't just in japan
but its neighboring countries as well in
japan
they take cultivating melons pretty
seriously you won't only see
pricey cube-shaped watermelons but also
ones in a heart and pyramid shape
there are even human-faced watermelons
complete with eyes
a nose and a mouth as for one of japan's
most iconic characters
hello kitty even has her face on a melon
to top it off
these hello kitty branded melons are
priced at 69
high-speed trains in japan are designed
like well
a bullet hence the name these things can
go up to 198 miles per hour
and are known for their punctuality
comfort safety and efficiency
they have six types of bullet trains but
one must have stood out to this shoe
designer
these sneakers are made to look like the
tohoku shinkansen train
i wonder if they make you run faster
it's obvious by now that japan can
deliver but even when you go into a
restaurant or cafe
what you see in those beautiful
advertisements is exactly what you get
just look at this starbucks matcha some
more frappuccino
compared to the display nearby in japan
they consider food preparation in art a
classic example is the glass display
that showcases a restaurant's dishes
in japan when you order food it's the
same as what's advertised
do not leave tips it's very convenient
but if you don't know about this rule
you can end up in an
embarrassing situation on one of my
first days in japan
i had an amazing meal in a restaurant
the food
service atmosphere everything was
perfect
so before leaving i put a generous tip
on the table
well my waiter stopped me before i got
out the door
to return my forgotten money
when i'm at home in the u.s i'm not the
only one having my lunch on the run
hopping on the bus with a coke in one
hand and a hot dog in the other
in most places in japan though eating
and drinking on the street or in public
transport
is frowned upon unless it's a shinkansen
or
similar long distance train you just
don't take a sandwich or coffee for a
walk to the nearest park
it's much more common to have a meal in
the same place where you bought your
food
and if it's street food eat it while
standing still
or find somewhere to sit down but this
rule could already be
outdated i've seen quite a lot of locals
scarfing snacks while hurrying somewhere
if you ask a japanese person for
directions they won't point it's
considered threatening
and therefore impolite instead they'll
either provide you with verbal
directions
or show where you should go with an open
hand
now about greeting people i'm sure you
know that shaking hands
is nothing but bad manners in japan well
if you're a foreigner no one will scold
you japanese people are used to shaking
hands with westerners
but if you want to blend in you should
bow when meeting people
thanking someone or apologizing oh and
try to avoid my two most embarrassing
mistakes
never attempt to shake someone's hand
and bow at the same time
it's awkward and do not bow back when
you're a customer
for example in hotels restaurants or
stores
oh that reminds me in many stores you
can notice small trays near the cash
register
you're supposed to put the money there
instead of handing it directly to the
cashier
ignoring such a tray will be rather
impolite
oh and don't count the change you've
just been handed it's very
very rude when you climb into a hot
relaxing bath in japan you must already
be clean
in this country bathing isn't about
washing your body
it's a relaxing activity that's why you
should clean yourself in the shower
before getting into a bathtub and make
sure
that no soap residue gets into the water
if there is traditional japanese
flooring in a restaurant
you should remove your shoes before
entering and if you need to go to the
restroom
you'll find several pairs of bathroom
slippers of different sizes near the
entrance
the crucial thing is to remember to take
these slippers off
after you finish your business returning
from the restroom with bathroom slippers
on
is an unthinkable mistake guess what
happened to me
once or twice right